LOOKOUT 0.1.0 — INTERACTIVE RELEASE-CANDIDATE TEST PLAN
Run this plan against the exact commit and VSIX proposed for release. Create a
new dated record under docs/sessions/ and record the commit, VSIX SHA-256,
platform versions, provider CLI versions, and one result per numbered item.
The 2026-07-10 smoke report is historical and does not clear this gate.

Program scope and sequencing:
  docs/plans/pre-release-program.md

AUTOMATED EVIDENCE — capture fresh output in the dated release record:
  - npm run check
  - npm run test:integration
  - npm run compat:providers
  - npm run audit:runtime
  - npm run verify:vsix
Do not copy a historical test count into the result. CI currently exercises the
fast gate on Linux, Windows, and macOS; the extension-host suite runs on Stable
for all three and on the minimum supported VS Code on Linux. Automation does
not replace the interactive checks below.

SETUP (once)
  - Desktop VS Code, plus WSL, Remote SSH, and dev-container passes. Record an
    explicit accepted limitation if a release candidate cannot cover a host.
  - A multi-root workspace with two scratch repositories for the relevant
    launch, review, and path-scoping checks.
  - Signed-in codex and claude CLIs; node on PATH.
  - A scratch git repo opened as a trusted workspace.
  - Test BOTH install paths: F5 "Run Lookout" (Extension Development Host),
    then install the exact release-candidate VSIX in a disposable profile.
    Packaging, CLI installation, and identity verification are automated; the
    interactive installed-VSIX path is still a separate release gate.

A. RENAME INTEGRITY (~5 min)
  1. Activity bar shows a Lookout icon; Agents, Review, and Usage
     Limits views all render.
  2. Command palette: typing "Lookout" lists every command under that
     category; nothing appears under "Paraterm" or "MultiTerm".
  3. Settings UI: searching "lookout" shows every contributed setting,
     titled correctly.
  4. Inside a launched agent terminal:
     env | grep -i 'multiterm\|paraterm'  -> nothing
     env | grep LOOKOUT                    -> the 5 LOOKOUT_* vars

B. LAUNCH AND LAYOUT (~10 min)
  5. "+" picker offers Codex / Claude Code / Custom. Launch two Codex
     and one Claude: terminals open in the native terminal panel by default,
     leaving the editor area free for code and review.
  6. Terminal tab names read "Lookout: <label> [<id>]"; tree rows show
     directory - branch - state.
  7. Split an agent (inline action): native split beside its parent,
     not a new column.
  8. Set lookout.terminals.location = editor, launch -> lands in editor
     column two with column one free for review. Reset to panel.
  9. Launch with lookout.codex.command = "nonexistent-cli": no dead
     terminal is created; guided help offers the command setting.

C. LIFECYCLE, ATTENTION, AND THE BELL (~20 min — the heart of it)
 10. Claude: send a prompt -> row shows working. Trigger a permission
     prompt -> attention + notification with "Focus Agent". Let a
     turn finish while another terminal is focused -> calm finished/idle
     state + unread dot; focusing clears unread.
 11. Codex first launch: the one-time /hooks trust review flow
     appears as designed (D8) — Lookout instructs, never bypasses.
     Before trusting, turn-complete attention still arrives via the
     notify fallback. After /hooks trust, full working / waiting /
     delegated-agent events flow. A PermissionRequest followed by an
     automatic approval stays "checking authorization" and never claims
     that Codex needs permission or rings the attention bell.
 12. Delegated agents: have Claude or Codex spawn a subagent -> row
     shows delegated-agent state. Foreground stop with a live child
     -> background, not waiting. After the last child drains, a genuine
     input/permission wait -> attention while a clean turn end -> idle.
     Permission requests outrank child progress (D3).
 13. Bell and notification: with the window unfocused, let the terminal
     that was last active hit attention -> both are delivered and the
     row remains unread. Repeat while a different terminal is focused.
     lookout.attentionSound.volume = 0 and the
     Agents toolbar speaker toggle each mute it and changes icon. Use
     Lookout: Test Attention Sound and Configure Attention Sound. On WSL, confirm the
     PowerShell fallback produces sound, or a one-time "missing audio
     backend" message — never unexplained silence.
 14. Custom agent: run the copied attention hook command inside its
     terminal -> attention + unread. Pipe a JSON payload into it via
     stdin to check message extraction.
 15. Exit an unattended agent (exit / ctrl-d) -> completed/failed with
     exit code and bell; notification honors lookout.notifyOnAgentExit.
     With lookout.review.captureCommandOutput enabled before launch, a finished
     Codex/Claude Bash command leaves Running and opens a bounded, transient
     result under Recent Command Results. Disable the setting -> results clear;
     reload -> no result remains.

D. NAVIGATION (~5 min)
 16. Tree click focuses the exact terminal. Focus Agent quick-pick
     shows label/kind/branch/state. ctrl+alt+n jumps to the unread
     agent. Next/previous cycle in stable creation order. Rename
     persists.

E. REVIEW VIEW (~15 min)
 17. Modify, add, delete, and rename a file -> each opens the right
     native diff against the launch baseline (delete = baseline vs
     empty; rename shows old -> new path in the tooltip).
 18. Worktree group label: agent names first; grey description
     carries branch + change count.
 19. Branch-switch honesty: git checkout -b other after launch ->
     group shows "launch-branch -> other", warning icon, stale-
     baseline wording.
 20. Cross-worktree discovery: git worktree add outside the VS Code
     workspace, launch an agent there -> its changes and artifacts
     appear with canonical path labels.
 21. Files changed since an open agent launched and matching
     lookout.review.artifactGlobs appear under that worktree's agent
     labels in Plans & Docs and are EXCLUDED from Workspace Changes.
     Unchanged and older pre-existing documents stay hidden.
 22. Recent Images stays hidden until lookout.review.showRecentImages;
     then a fresh screenshot appears and opens in the image editor in
     column one.
 23. Diagnostics are scoped to the selected agent's root; opening one
     jumps to the range. Tasks quick-pick runs a real task. SCM
     button opens Source Control. Open Browser uses Simple/Integrated
     Browser with a graceful external fallback.

F. USAGE LIMITS (~10 min)
 24. Codex windows show percentages/reset countdowns — verify the
     numbers against Codex's own UI before trusting them. Spark
     buckets hidden until lookout.usage.codex.showSparkLimits.
 25. Claude shows waiting until the first response, then 5h/7d
     windows — verify against /usage. An API-key session shows
     waiting/unavailable, NEVER 0%.
 26. Status bar reads "Codex n% - Claude n%" with warning/critical
     background at the configured thresholds. After 15+ min idle the
     snapshot goes stale rather than showing frozen numbers.

G. PERSISTENCE AND RESTORE (~10 min)
 27. Reload window: sessions reattach to their terminals. If the
     bridge port was reusable, hooks still work; otherwise rows say
     "hooks require a new session". Never a silently-dead bridge —
     that is a release gate.
 28. Restored custom session: split/restart refused with the
     explanatory warning (command not persisted).
 29. Close a terminal manually -> row shows closed. Remove the
     completed/closed agent from the sidebar -> still gone after
     another reload.
 30. While a tracked shell execution is live, Restart Agent Command
     refuses instead of typing into agent stdin.

H. TRUST (~5 min)
 31. Open an untrusted copy of the workspace: Review and Usage are
     readable; launching agents and running tasks is blocked with the
     trust warning; the three command settings are shown restricted.

I. ATTENTION ROUTING, HISTORY, PROFILES, AND TEMPLATES (~15 min)
 32. Configure Agent Profiles reports direct Codex/Claude executables as
     detected, missing executables as unavailable, and wrapper commands as
     launch-only without claiming identity/resume/fork support.
 33. Agent rows and the status bar surface unread/attention state from fixed
     operational labels. Next/Previous Unread cycles and focusing the session
     clears only its event read state. History tooltips show the latest fixed
     event label. No prompt, hook message, command text, tool output, or
     transcript path appears anywhere.
 34. Close a managed session after its SessionStart identity arrives. History
     marks it resumable; Custom/adopted rows remain terminal-only. Resume opens
     the provider's native continuation in the original folder. A duplicate
     live resume is refused with Focus Existing / Fork Instead. Fork obtains a
     distinct provider ID. Archive/unarchive changes Lookout metadata only.
 35. Create and relaunch both shared-folder and isolated-worktree templates.
     Tasks, browser URL, and review layout run only after explicit launch.
     Remove a configured profile/executable: launch is refused with guidance.
     Inspect extension storage and confirm templates contain no command, args,
     environment, prompt, token, or credentials.

J. DOCTOR, SUPPORT, AND VERIFICATION HONESTY (~10 min)
 36. Run Lookout Doctor locally and on every remote execution host. It reports
     trust, coarse remote kind, Git/Node, profiles, lifecycle/bridge, provider
     identity, usage, and baseline availability using fixed states. Session
     scopes are ordinals only; no user labels or IDs appear.
 37. Export a sanitized support bundle. Search it for the home path, every
     workspace path, Lookout/provider IDs, configured commands, URLs and query
     tokens, prompts, transcript paths, event messages, stdout/stderr, and
     credentials: none may appear. Canceling the picker writes nothing and no
     upload occurs.
 38. Review diff statistics, commits/upstream/conflicts, diagnostic delta, and
     verification readiness remain scoped to the physical worktree and earliest
     attached baseline. Attach a second shared-worktree agent and close the
     first: the baseline must not jump. Switch/rewrite HEAD or make evidence
     partial: readiness becomes stale/incomplete, never a false green claim.

K. CROSS-PROJECT HISTORY AND LIVE WINDOWS (~20 min per host)
 39. With global history enabled, launch and close managed/custom sessions in
     project A, then open project B. History groups current rows separately from
     Other Projects, marks managed provider history resumable, keeps custom
     history terminal-only, and never says the old terminal is live.
 40. From project B, select a resumable project-A row. Confirm the first modal
     names the provider, project, operation, and cwd. The owning project opens;
     its Lookout window claims the expiring handoff, rechecks Workspace Trust
     and provider configuration, then shows the final provider command modal.
     Cancel at either modal -> no terminal and no later surprise launch.
 41. Repeat while project A is already open. The existing window claims the
     handoff without requiring reload. Expire an intent before claim -> nothing
     launches. Delete history while another window is open -> the stale window
     cannot immediately resurrect it; genuinely newer provider activity may.
 42. Verify lookout.experimental.crossWindowCoordination is false by default.
     Enable it in two windows on the same host/profile: one Doctor reports owner,
     the other client, and History shows leased live rows under Live in Other
     Windows without exposing cwd/provider IDs in the live payload. A session
     live in another window appears only as its live row — not additionally
     under Other Projects or Current Workspace — and reloading a window never
     leaves the same session listed twice under two leases.
 43. Trigger attention in window A while using window B. Focus Next Attention
     or the live row sends one request; A reveals the exact terminal and reports
     the routed action. Close A -> its row expires within the lease window.
 44. Attempt to resume a provider ID already live in A: B refuses duplicate
     resume and offers Focus Existing / Fork Instead. Disable/break coordination
     while global history still says live: Lookout refuses to guess and offers
     fork, open project, or coordinator configuration.
 45. Kill the coordinator-owning extension host, then keep the client alive.
     After stale-owner expiry a remaining window elects a replacement and
     Doctor returns healthy. Exercise a port conflict and mixed protocol fixture:
     no unauthenticated connection, split brain, or silent version takeover.
 46. Repeat 39-45 separately on local desktop, WSL, one Remote SSH host, and one
     dev container. Same-host windows coordinate; local/WSL/SSH/container rows
     never federate or claim that another execution host is reachable. Repeat
     with two VS Code profiles and confirm their coordinators/history are isolated.

EXIT CRITERIA (ROADMAP release gates)
  - launch -> monitor -> jump -> review loop passes interactively
  - no provider limit shown as zero when it is unknown
  - restored sessions never silently claim a working attention bridge
  - no user auth file or terminal output is read
  - provider and Lookout session IDs remain distinct; duplicate resume is refused
  - support export passes the adversarial redaction check
  - global history reopens the correct project without inventing live state
  - live coordination expires dead windows and never crosses execution hosts
  - shared-worktree changes are never misattributed to one agent
  - package, CI, and the documented manual matrix are green
